%Life on a Mountain
%Will Bamberg
%17 March 2017

or "Privileged Teen Has Life Crisis, Decides To Travel In Search of Enlightenment"
(v.1.1)

A couple of days ago, I was reading a thread on Reddit filled with stories from people who left their lives/work/school to go travel around the world, and I became hooked on the idea. I  ranted to my friends about how I wanted to just leave and go live in the wilderness on a mountain and backpack through Asia and explore Europe. I made a spreadsheet and started a packing list and an itinerary (at this point just a list of countries and vague places like "remote buddhist temple". In this (entry? post? I don't know yet what this is or what to call it... EDIT: I've since decided to start a blog, It's now definitively a post.) post, I want to expand a little on this idea, and my motivations for it. 

I suppose the root of this excitement is that I feel increasingly directionless. The current trajectory I'm on is public school > college > engineering degree > engineering work. This path is not necessarily bad; I'll probably continue it and I am interested in it. However, ever since junior (sophomore?) year I've taken issue with the mindset our society has that this path (college > degree > job in that field > ... > death) is the correct one. It's pervasive in our public school system. I am aware of that this is a skewed view of reality, yet I continue to follow it. When I really think about it, however, I don't really have strong sense of where I'm going. I realize that as a 19 year old college freshman, this is neither alarming nor unusual, but it'd be nice to have a better sense

I have rough, moonshot end goals -- ending global warming/achieving 100% renewables, and putting humans on mars/space in general (small, right?). Those are the two fields I'm most intersted and passionate about, and I'd like spend a significant portion of my life in one or both, but they are both around point x or y. I'm at point e. There's a hell of a lot in between that I don't know about. I think that I need to experience more in the world and learn more about myself. 

Another significant source of my enthusiasm for this whole nomadic venture is dissatsifaction with many aspects of my life and my routine. Exhibit A is social media. I'm on social media a lot. I'm on my phone a lot. I'm on my computer a lot. I actively use use snapchat, facebook, instagram, twitter, venmo (lol), and reddit, which means that I have enough social media outlets that, by the time I've scrolled through the whole list, there is generally new stuff to read in the ones I checked first, and then the second, and so the cycle of procrastination continues. I use social media as a procrastination and boredom crutch, and I don't like the way I fill my time with it. I could use an extended break from it, but it'd be really difficult for me to just pull the plug. Going off and traveling/backpacking alone would be a great setting to take the plunge and unplug. 

I'm dissatisfied with my laziness in general. When left to my own devices over breaks, I stay up late, sleep in late, and spend a lot of time scrolling/playing video games/watching TV. I have an unhealthy pattern of getting up late, doing those things for a few hours, and only then getting to some amount of productivity. However, then it's nighttime and then I go out and hang out with friends or do something. It's a weird combination of laziness, procrastination, and a weird sense of entitlement toward my free time and how I waste it. 

In a similar but different vein, I've realized recently that I'm not as comfortable with being alone as I'd like. Friendships and social groups stress me out more than I think they should;  I'm sure this isn't a rare problem to have, but I feel like I spend an inordinate amount of time worrying about missing out on having fun with friends, or how my friends feel about me, etc. I think that a lot of this stems from insecurity with myself. I find that I'm happiest in social settings, which isn't bad, but I'd like to be more at ease with being alone and being just as happy in non-group settings. I think a voyage such as this would help me to break out from that. 

Now, I realize that travel isn't a magical cure-all for the aimlessness and insecurities of youth. I understand that going to a new country won't magically give me insight into what I want to do with my life. On the other hand, I really feel that such a drastic change in environment and lifestyle would support and complement the aforementioned changes and aspects of myself I want to improve. Beyond that, I just have a feeling that throwing myself into the world and seeing where it takes me would be truly beneficial. We (at least, I) rarely push ourselves too far outside of or comfort zones or stray from the safe and the familiar. We rarely have adventures. As quaint or silly as it might sound, I want to have an adventure. 

"Adventure" carries a connotation of youth and naiveté. We generally think of adventures as something that children chase after, but that we give up when we go to school and work. This seems like an unfortunate view to me, because I think that most important characteristic of adventure is something we could all do with more of: experiencing something new for the sake of experiencing it. We are generally are so focused and engaged in our immediate environments-- in our cities,  communities and social groups-- that we forget to adventure. I know I'm absolutely guilty of that. In truth, though, our planet is absolutely massive. It's packed with incredible sights and places, and it's brimming with cultures and ideas and individuals and lives. It's too much for any one person to experience all of it, but I want to explore as big a sliver as I can on this trek.  

I hope that I learn more about myself on this journey (If you haven't noticed, I'm using as many different words for "trip" as I can). For me, this past semester and a half has been a lot of navigating what I really want, what I'm really interested in, and what I really care about. I'd like to broaden my horizons and my view of the world, and grow myself. I want to climb a mountain and watch the sun set. I want to backpack through a forest and camp under the stars. I want to travel my way through Europe or Asia, pick up some French and practice my Mandarin. I want to make friends with strangers and try foods I don't like. I want to appreciate life from a different point of view. 

\*\*\*